.. _l10n-chapter:

==================
 Maintaining l10n
==================


Things to know about l10n
=========================

1. translations are done in `Verbatim
   <https://localize.mozilla.org/>`_ 

2. translators are looking at our -dev environment to see the strings
   in use

3. the -dev environment should have a cronjob kicking off every 10
   minutes that updates the svn locale repository so that translators
   can see the latest stuff

:svn url:    https://svn.mozilla.org/projects/l10n-misc/trunk/input/locale
:viewvc svn: http://viewvc.svn.mozilla.org/vc/projects/l10n-misc/trunk/input/locale/
:Verbatim:   https://localize.mozilla.org/projects/input/


Installing localizations from svn
=================================

Localizations are not stored in this repository--they're in Mozilla's
subversion repository.

To get the localizations, do::

    cd locale
    svn checkout https://svn.mozilla.org/projects/l10n-misc/trunk/input/locale locale

To see the translated strings, you need to first compile the .po files to
.mo files::

    ./bin/compile-mo.sh locale/


.. _l10n-update-strings:

Extract/merge/sync strings with svn
===================================

First, ping Kadir (or whoever else) and tell him/her we're merging strings
(i.e. extracting them from our codebase and committing the changes to svn).

Then, update the svn repository::

    cd locale
    svn update
    cd ..

Then, extract the strings from the codebase::

    ./manage.py extract
    ./manage.py merge

Then, commit the new strings to svn::

    cd locale
    svn commit -m 'Input strings update YYYY/MM/DD'

Then, tell him/her that the strings have been extracted. He/she will
update Verbatim for all locales.

.. Note::

   There are also instructions in ``./locale/README.txt``.

After that, send an email to the `dev-l10n-web mailing list
<https://lists.mozilla.org/listinfo/dev-l10n-web>`_ using this template::

    Hi!

    I've just pushed new strings to Verbatim for Input.

    https://localize.mozilla.org/projects/input/

    < explanation of strings changes here >

    To give you an idea of how many untranslated strings there are, I
    have computed this list:

    < copy and paste output of "./bin/stats-po.sh locale/" >

    If you have any questions, please reply to the list.

    Thank you so much for your help!

    Input development team


Sometimes we have to create bugs for each individual locale to update the
translations. It's nice to copy/paste the specific strings that need to be 
translated.

Sometimes the translator says they've finished, but the string updates aren't
in svn. If that happens, tell the translator that they have to push the
"Commit to VCS" button/link.


Creating new localization locales
=================================

FIXME: This section is probably wrong.

In your projects ``settings.py`` add the new locale to
``KNOWN_LANGUAGES``.

Then run::

    $ ./manage.py merge -c

which will create directories for any locales that are missing in
``locale/``.


.. seealso::

   http://playdoh.readthedocs.org/en/latest/userguide/l10n.html#creating-new-locales
     Playdoh docs on creating new locales
